                                                                                                      Linux File System

              A Linux FIle System is a structured collection of files on a disk drive or a partition .A partition is a segment of memory and contains some specific data.in our machine,there can 
be various partitions of the memory.
The general-purpose computer system neeeds to store data systematically so that we can easily access the files in less time.It stores the data on hard disksor some equivalent storage
type.
linux file system contains the following sections:
   1.The Root Directory(/).
   2.A Specific data storage format(EXT3,EXT4,BTRFS,XFS and soon).
   3.A partition or Logical volume having a particular file system.
             Linux file system is generally built-in layer of a Linux Operating system used to handle the data management of the storage.It helps to arrange the file on the disk storage.It
manages the file name,file size,creation date,and much more information about a file.
 Linux File System Structure:
                  Linux File system has a hierarchial file structure as it contains a root directory and its subdirectories.All other directories can be accessed from the root directory.a
partition usually has only one file system,but it may have more than one file system.
Linux File System Features:
                 In linux,the file system creates a tree structure. All the files are arranged as a tree and its branches.The topmost directory called the ROOTDIRECTORY(/).All other 
directories in linux can be accessed from the root directory.
Some key features of Linux file system are as following:
    *specifying paths:Linux does not use the backslash(\) to seperate the components;it uss forward slash(/) as an alternative.
   *Partition,Directories,and Drives:Linux does not use drive letters to organize the drive as windows does.In Linux,We cannot tell whether we are addessing a patition, a network device,
or an "ordinary"directory and a drive.
Case Sensitivity:Linux file system is case sensitive. It distingushes between lowercase and uppercase file names.Such as,there is a difference between test.txt and test.txt in Linux.This 
rule is applied for directories and linux commands.
   *File Extensions:In Linux,a file may have the extension'.txt',but it is npot neccessary that a file sould have a file extension.
   *Hidden Files:Linux distinguishes between standard files and hidden files,mostly the configuration files and hidden in linux OS.Usually,we don't need to access or read the hidden files.
The hidden files in linux are represented by adot(.)before the file name(e.g., .ignore).To access the files ,we need to change the view in the file manager or need to use a specific command
in the shell.
   Types of Linux File System:
      1.EXT,EXT2,EXT3 and EXT4 file system
      2.JFS File System
      3.ReiserFS File System
     4.XFS File System
     5.Btrfs File System
    6.Swap File System.
Linux Create File:
        linux files are case sensitive,so test.txt and test.txt will be considered as two different files.There are multiple ways to create a file in linux.Some conventional methods are as 
Follows:
*using cat command 
*using touch command
*using redirect'>'symbol
*using echo command
*using printf command 
*using a different text editor like vim,nano,vi.     